[MUSIC]
>> Michael: This exercise,
building on top of what we just did,
I want to componentize
a few things in our app.
I want to componentize two things.
One is a github-org and
one is a github-repo.
And these are just gonna be
basically the contents of your
each loops in your templates.
We're gonna move away from explicitly
saying an LI with a link in it
to this URL and we're instead going to
have a component for each of those.
And what we're gonna do after making
sure the favorite behavior still works,
you should continue to see
the console.log stuff working.
When you click favorite,
you should see a list growing
that you log out to the console.
And, additionally,
I want you to increase the complexity
of the repo component by just printing
out to the screen the number of forks and
the number of watchers on
each repository in the list.
And I think it's just watchers_count and
forks_count.
Those are the attributes available
on the object we get from GitHub.
So I wanna make sure that
there's ample time for
people to get through this themselves.
So let's allow 20 minutes for this.
Any questions?
>> Speaker 2: There's one in chat.
How can a component communicate
to a parent and vice versa?
>> Michael: To a parent component.
>> Speaker 2: To a parent component,
yes sir.
>> Michael: Yes.
So the typical way of doing that is,
well, let me start by saying encapsulation
is important and to start carrying
about what your parent is is a little bit
dangerous because it breaks encapsulation.
So the proper way to do this, if you
remember when we each over something,
we have that local variable for
the current item in the list.
Typically, you'll want to pass your
parent component to your children, right?
You wanna pass the instance
of it to your children so
that it's available for them to use, and
I will show you what that looks like.
So we just make some space here.
You would do something like this.
>> [COUGH]
>> Michael: If that makes sense there.
So there are alternate approaches
to doing this that involve
traversing upwards through
either the component hierarchy,
which is a JavaScript understanding
of the organization of components,
or worse yet, traversing through
the DOM and then trying to look
in the view registry of like
looking up an Ember view by ID.
These are both pretty brittle.
And add-ons that have taken
approaches like that have
broken as those private APIs have changed.
What you have here will absolutely work.
And so there's a way that you can
yield this out of a component.
You can make that available
within this block scope here,
right, just the same way that each works.
And then you can pass that to
any children explicitly so
that you're still playing
by the rules here.
You're still passing things
through the contract
to make them available
to the child component.